.TH K2HBENCH "1" "February 2014" "K2HASH" "NoSQL(KVS) Library"
.SH NAME
K2HBENCH \- Bench mark Tool for K2HASH
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B k2hbench
[ \-f filename | \-t filename | \-m | \-h ] [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
k2hbench is bench mark test tool, this can test benchmark for K2HASH library with any mode. Then this tool read/write the k2hash file or memory for bench mark on multi process/thread. You can see usage this tool by typing "-h".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
display help
.TP
\fB\-f\fR [K2HASH FILE]
specify permanent k2hash file
.TP
\fB\-t\fR [K2HASH FILE]
specify temporary k2hash file
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
k2hash data on only memory
.TP

\fB\-type\fR [ro | rw]
bench type as READ ONLY/READ WRITE(default rw).
.TP
\fB\-proc\fR [count]
process count(default 1).
.TP
\fB\-thread\fR [count]
thread count(default 1).
.TP
\fB\-loop\fR [loop count]
Loop count(default 1) for each thread, must set over 0.
.TP
\fB\-dcount\fR [count]
data count(default 1) for using read/write test.
.TP
\fB\-dlength\fR [byte]
data length(default 128 byte) for testing.
.TP
\fB\-start_nodata\fR
if set this option, not initialize data before starting.
.TP
\fB\-mask\fR [BIT COUNT]
specify bit mask count for k2hash data
.TP
\fB\-cmask\fR [BIT COUNT]
specify collision bit mask count for k2hash data
.TP
\fB\-elementcnt\fR [ELEMENT COUNT]
specify element count for each k2hash table
.TP
\fB\-pagesize\fR [BYTE]
specify pagesize for each k2hash internal data
\fB\-nofullmap\fR
not map all of k2hash file on memory when k2hash file specified
.TP
\fB\-ro\fR
work with read only mode when permanent k2hash file
.TP
\fB\-g\fR [ERR | WAN | INFO]
set debugging level, k2hbench displays debugging message for itself
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBK2HDBGMODE\fR
K2HDBGMODE environment sets debugging message level as same as \-g option. The value is set as SILENT, ERR, WAN or INFO.
When k2hbench catches SIGUSR1 signal, the debugging message level is bumpup. The level is changed as order by SILENT, ERR, WAN, INFO, SILENT...
.TP
\fK2HDBGFILE\fR
K2HDBGFILE environment sets the file which is debugging message, this is as same as \-glog option.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
k2hash(1), k2hreplace(1), k2hcompress(1), k2htouch(1), k2hedit(1), k2hlinetool(1)
.SH BUGS
.TP
Please report owner and committers.
.SH AUTHOR
k2hash has been written by Takeshi Nakatani <ggtakec@gmail.com>.
